    nss-ubdns - NSS plugin for DNSSEC validated hostname lookups

The nss-ubdns library is a plugin for the glibc NSS (Name Service Switch)
interface that returns DNSSEC validated lookups to the NSS "hosts" database.
It is a replacement for the standard libresolv based "dns" plugin that uses
the libunbound library for caching and validation.

INSTALLATION
============

nss-ubdns requires libunbound and the libunbound development headers to build.

Run "make && make install", which will build the plugin and install it to
/usr/lib. Reset the "NSSDIR" Makefile variable if /usr/lib is not the correct
path for NSS plugins on your platform.

CONFIGURATION
=============

nss-ubdns reads the list of nameservers from the file /etc/ubdns/resolv.conf.
If this file does not exist, the list of nameservers will instead be read from
/etc/resolv.conf.

The file /etc/ubdns/libunbound.conf, if it exists, will be used to configure
the libunbound library. See the unbound.conf(5) man page for more details. A
sample libunbound.conf file that minimizes the resources consumed by the
resolver is included with nss-ubdns.

The file /etc/ubdns/ubdns.conf contains nss-ubdns specific configuration. The
currently supported options are:

    accept-bogus

        If "accept-bogus" is set, records which are returned by libunbound as
        "bogus" are accepted. From the libunbound documentation:

            If the result was not secure, and this result is due to a security
            failure, bogus is true.  This means the data has been actively
            tampered with, signatures failed, expected signatures were not
            present, timestamps on signatures were out of date and so on.

        This option is disabled by default.

    require-secure

        If "require-secure" is set, only results which securely validated will
        be returned. This option overrides "accept-bogus" if set.

        This option is disabled by default.

Trust anchors are configured by creating files in the /etc/ubdns/keys
directory. Only files ending in ".key" will be processed. If the unbound
server is in use, any files that are in use as auto-trust-anchor-files can be
symlinked into this directory.

To configure the Name Service Switch to use nss-ubdns instead of the glibc dns
plugin, edit the /etc/nsswitch.conf file and change "dns" to "ubdns" for the
hosts database (the line beginning with "hosts:").

Note that installing nss-ubdns will cause your host to generate additional DNS
queries. You may want to install a local DNS cache to reduce the upstream
impact of this additional load.

TESTING
=======

The "getent hosts", "getent ahostsv4", and "getent ahostsv6" commands can be
used to test nss-ubdns.

In the following examples, "google.com" is an unsigned zone, "debian.org" is a
signed and validatable zone, and "dnssec-failed.org" is a signed but
unvalidatable zone.

    $ getent hosts www.google.com; echo $?
    74.125.157.147  www.google.com
    74.125.157.99   www.google.com
    74.125.157.104  www.google.com
    0

    $ getent hosts www.debian.org; echo $?
    2607:f8f0:610:4000:211:25ff:fec4:5b28 www.debian.org
    0

    $ getent hosts www.dnssec-failed.org; echo $?
    2

BUGS
====

    * Aliases are not handled correctly.
